===== Miko & Peter's Funeral =====

The funeral is achingly simple. They've talked the Gaskins, the family that
owns the meadow where wedding was held, and so Miko and Peter will be
buried where they died. Apparently this is auspicious for some reason, and
I respect its primal integrity. We form again the great circle, those who
have stayed for the funeral in a huge ring. This time I'm on the outside,
not in the center. Miko's students pull the bodies in a cart decorated with
flowers to an enormous hole in the ground, surrounded by four mounds of
dirt. Dozens of shovels are stuck in the mounts of dirt, sticking up into
the air like incense.

The nine tiny women pick up the two bodies, an arm and a leg each, one to
lead the way. They stand on opposite sides of the rectangular hole, and
then with no ceremony at all, forcefully dump the tangled bodies into the
hole. The silence is broken by hundreds of gasps and moans and cries at the
shock of the gesture.

The delicate women in white return to the cart and pull long poles from it,
each topped with a bright red streamer, and stick them in the ground around
the grave. I'm thinking about Peter's body, uncereoniously thrown in the
hole. I don't know how other people are taking it, but to me the symbolism
is clear: "taking out the garbage, but the souls fly free."

The streamers twist lazily in the light breeze. It's too hot. The sun beats
down on us.

Peter is gone. Perhaps with Miko to some new life, perhaps into eternal
night, if we're wrong about everything. I wonder if I'll see him again.

They pick up shovels and start putting dirt in the hole, one on each side.
Dad puts his hand on my shoulder and says, very quietly, "I can't believe
he's dead. He's always been so full of tricks, I half-wonder if they've
just eloped to some south sea island and left us a couple of dead clones."

I turn to look at him, and see from the tightness of his lips that he's not
joking. He's warning me.

I think about it. I imagine Miko and Peter in a little cottage near a
beach, living under new names, pretending to have been married for half a
century, walking in the sand together. It's a very beautiful thought, the
idea that they might have made their heaven here, in their declining years,
rather than simply killed themselves to propel their spirits into the
hearafter.

The moment stretches, and Dad says "He's capable of anything. He's never
let other people get in the way of doing what he thought needed done."

I imagine Peter and Gupta scheming it up years ago, seeding an illegal tank
and growing two bodies, aging them... incredibly dangerous, incredibly
illegal, but with Peter's contacts in orbit... or just grow them up there
and smuggle them down, passed through irradiation so they would register as
safe and sterile and...

Would he do that to us?

I put my hands on Dad's shoulders, and say "No, Dad, I'm pretty sure he's
gone. I really think he was that tired."

Dad doesn't relax.

"Peter's been my brother my whole life, Harry, and I would not put anything
past him. You don't know what it's been like. I loved him but the side
effects of having him around... Nothing's ever gone right, nothing's ever
seemed fully real. Other people just live their lives. We always lived
Peter's game."

I think for a moment. I see the pain of loss, but also the knowing that his
brother had other priorities.

I think about the AI in orbit, prospecting among the stars for a voice to
discuss its soul with, moonlighting on its official mission to find
somebody to get a star drive from. I think about making sure that it knows
that humans can be Awake too, about giving it a name. I think about us and
them, in the future, referring back to that conversation as a turning point.

I am, at this moment, more Peter's son than Greg's. Because I can't tell
Dad what Peter risked when he sent me to talk to AL, what PRIG did and why,
and why it was the best thing for everybody. I know Peter did what he had
to, even if it was this, and alive or dead, I'd like to think he's made the
right decision.

People are starting to walk towards the center of the circle, to the
graves, to shovel dirt into the hole with the women in white. A few, here
and there, drift slowly to the centre almost as if they are dreaming. Most
of us just stand.

I say "Yes, Dad. I don't think any of us will every understand Peter's ways
completely, but we're all here because he did something for us. A lot of
these people think he was a god or a buddha or an ascended master. We know
he was your brother, my Uncle, making it up as he went along. But I think
he did alright."

On this we agree. We hug, and walk towards the grave. A spadeful of dirt
for the Master.

I think for a moment. I try and reach out with my mind to touch Peter's
mind, to feel where he is. There's nothing.

I wonder. If he was dead, would I be able to feel him more clearly as a
spirit, as a presence, or would it be this... absence. Surely he'd be
stronger, more visible as a spirit?

Then I realize it's just wish fulfillment. Peter is dead, Miko is dead,
we're never really going to understand why fully because the only person
who could really explain it is long, long gone, and Dad misses him and it's
a hard enough blow to provoke paranoia.

It's never been easy being Peter's family, but he wouldn't waste a gesture
like his own death at his wedding just to escape from the world.

He's gone, and he's never coming back.

===== The King =====

I see Peter walking up a dark grey gravel path at twilight. He's twenty or
thirty feet in front of me, I can clearly hear the gravel crunch at each
step. He looks as young as he did when I was a child, like my first
memories of him. He's carrying a backpack, and the moon is full. I'm my own
age, young and strong, and I run after him, but I'm not gaining. He's
walking towards the horizon, towards the moon. I stop for breath, and he
walks ahead, distance stretching out until he's at the horizon after half a
minute, and I see his silhouette against the setting moon, and then he's
gone.

I wake up. It's almost exactly 12 months since Miko and Peter died.

I've thought often about Dad's speculation that they're still alive
somewhere, that it was their way of retiring. Occasionally I get the
paranoia that he's still alive, that he's cheated death and us, and it
fades. I asked AL about it the last time we talked, and AL stated
categorically that it was not anything he'd inferred as possible. He gave a
fairly convincing account of things which would have showed up in his
purview if Peter had been concealing a project of that magnitude, and says
there was nothing.

And is there any difference between Peter dead and Peter on a beach
somewhere pretending to be somebody else? To us, he's gone, and... given
his belief system, if he wanted the beach, he'd have gone there to be young
and strong, not a burnt out old chap. He's free. I stretch out in bed and
check the time. Pretty soon I am going to work. I toss the duvet to one
side and sit up. The harsh Florida sun peeks through the blinds. I stand
and open them a crack, look out over the pool and parking lot. I've woken
up a little early. I walk into the bathroom, start the shower and look at
myself in the mirror. My beard is distinct and defined, my skin starting to
tan deeply, and a few signs of age. My eyes burn with an un-natural
intensity that I try very hard not to make noticable. Pass for normal, pass
for normal, pass for... normal.

I've changed so much since the funeral, since Peter's been gone. Dad, Petra
and I cleared out the van. It was a museum. We crated everything up and
shipped it to orbit. PRIG took custody, and fanned out Peter's collection
to a couple of hundred people who wanted a piece of the old man's life on
their desks or their walls. Cult objects. He's venerated. AL took a Beatles
album and talks of producing a zero-g record player. He wants me to come up
so he can watch my mind as I listen to it. I have an alarm clock with a
cracked plastic facade. It doesn't work right. It's become a symbol for me
of everything Peter rejected, gave up, about our ordinary lives.

I am going to work.

I walk out of the hotel half an hour later, a light breakfast and some of
the excellent fresh orange juice that Florida affords. I wait for the bus
on the street, seeking shade in the bus stop. Slacks, a belt, a Hawaiian
shirt, Panama hat.

My client makes aeroplanes. They need very, very specialized nanotech
batteries to stay within environmental regulations for civilian flight.

The bus silently draws in to the stop, and beeps as the doors open. I step
on and sit at the front, looking out the window at my new home town. We
trundle through Orlando's outskirts, little houses with overgrown gardens,
crazy lush greenery swarming over everything, little lizards sunning
themselves or taking shade in the shadow of palm trees, swimming pools and
everywhere the blazing sun and adaptations to it. There's no winter here, I
moved in January, and it was like Fall that never ended. The harshness of
the sun has made everything pale.

The bus deposits me at the office, and I nod to a few co-workers as I walk
to my desk. The formalisms of this game still elude me but I know that I
have to play, because if I'm going to get the best of both worlds, Peter's
and Dad's, this has to be mastered. I check messages, see the status of the
processes over-night. New bids for the batteries from three new potential
partners, and a more detailed costing from the leading company in the
field.

It is dull and routine. That's the point. I can either break ties with the
world and make my equivalent of Peter's van, or I can do what my father
did, compromise with the rules of the game as they stand, and get on with
it.

I go and talk to the Boss. Helen's about 15 years older than me, early
forties, in surfing shape. She has the tough, rugged appearance of somebody
who lives outdoors. It's no secret why she lives in Florida. "Beach and
sky."

Her black suit is severe and formal, in stark contrast to her sun-bleached
hair and striking blue eyes. She must have been extraordinarily beautiful
once.

"Harry, do we have any conclusions yet?"

"No, only more detailed costings. As the specs tighten, the prices rise.
Pretty much what you'd expect. Some of the smaller players are coming to
the table now, but we'd be taking our chances with production volumes this
large if things go well in the sales pipeline."

"Ok. Well, this isn't blocking or bottlenecking anytime soon, so just keep
it moving. Oh, and Harry, I'm having a party on Friday, you should come and
meet some of my friends."

She smiles.

It's definitely not a come-on, but it's also definitely slightly more than
friendly.

Ok, party with the Boss.

At lunch, I go for a walk, sit in a cafe down the block, pull out my remote
and a lightweight pair of travel goggles, and check in on my private life.
AL and I are playing Go together against a team of six humans and two AIs,
and so far only losing by a small margin. Petra's arranging a family
vacation. Half a dozen requests for help of various kinds - a question on
meditation, some questions about Harappa from a college student, somebody
looking for an expert on lunar logistics, relationship advice... Pastoral
care and future engineering in a bundle. They didn't quite just dump me in
Peter's shoes, and I've only got a tenth of the time he did for the
network, but it's ongoing. Nagita turns out to be a lot more active and
westernized than her previous identity's formalism had suggested. She,
Laurie and Petra have become firm friends and between them are balancing a
lot of the oddies left in Peter's network. Annie's not so well, she took
his death hard, but time slowly passes. We've agreed not to mark the
anniversaries, it's a tradition we don't want to start.

Peter is gone.

I'm a low-level contract negotiator for big, complex manufacturing
operations involving space and ground partners working together. I don't do
very much beyond talk to people and make sure that we don't have massive
intercultural misunderstandings that threaten the production schedule.
Having spent a year up there seriously helps, although it's not often I
pick up anything important. I'm basically an insurance policy against goofs.

Keep the contracts moving, keep everybody on the same page. Keep progress
progressing. I picked something that was as much like Dad's job as
possible. He kept the lights on, raised a family, and still has a soul.
It's not that I haven't forgiven Peter, but the longer he's gone, the more
we realize how weird he was. And that's not the work, that's just who Peter
is. Was, I mean. Was.

I walk back to the office. First year, I'll be here. Maybe I'll stay longer
than that, because Florida's a good place for me, but I'll be able to work
from anywhere and travel. But I've gotten to like Orlando. Something deeply
pleasing about the rain in the afternoon, and coming from New York, the
lizards are still magical.

On Friday night, there's a barbeque grill on the back porch. It smokes too
much and produces a constant stream of shrimp, fish and grilled vegitables.
The other guests are mostly around my age, few people of Helen's age. Her
daughter is there, she's a little younger than me, very much the same build
as her mother, and stunning. She's taking a couple of years off after
college and getting to grips with the realities of life as an artist.

The house is filled with loud conversation, clanking glasses, forks on
plates. In one room people take turns playing favorite music and showing
off the dances that go with it from around the world. It's never been my
thing.

One of Helen's daughter's friends is wearing a spacer's band around her
wrist. In orbit, it would log environmental exposure and monitor vital
signs. Down here, it's jewelery, a little secret handshake. I wonder if she
works for the company.

Jillian has dark, curly hair and full, moist lips. A little heavier than is
fashionable here, imported from up north. Soon she and I are sitting on the
steps of the back porch, underneath the smoke from the grill, chatting
about what we did in our time in orbit. She went there to study dance, and
wound up learning the basics of construction coreography, the delicate
interweaving of people and machines required to efficiently build habitats
- half logistics, half fine manipulation - all whole systems, right back to
the architecture and the original building conception. I realize that
there's something more, too. Not just an attraction, there's some scene of
magic on her, some angle. I mention my last name, see if she knows Peter.

Nothing.

I consider mentioning PRIG, but that's not really wise or safe. He's...
controversial.

It's an impasse. Then she asks me "so did you spend any time, you know,
Outside?"

"Mother of Hydrogen, holy are your ways..." says my mind, unbidden...

I imagine her in a space suit, staring at the cosmic expanse, at the
wonder, hair floating around her face, eyes touching infinity, breath
sucked into a backpack by silent little fans, a hundred billion lightyears
of nothing in every direction except for the blue marble behind her. I
imagine that she Knows.

I say "Yes. I didn't do very much EVA, but I had a couple of sessions, one
quite long. Just tourism, though."

"Ah." She's awkward. Trying to broach it.

"I spent a long time in a suit up there. I wasn't working construction
officially, but they let me help out in some of the simpler stuff, as part
of a trainee team. And I was good at it, better than some of the regular
workers. Dance training, you know, it helps, but also the mind that graps
space, time and motion grasps everything. It's all one, you see, like
fingers on two hands working a padlock. Each person on the construction
team is a finger, and the panels and cables are the lock. It's all one
system, all together, as a whole. It's all one."

I'm watching her in space as she speaks, fluid and balletic, wielding a
beam as a counterweight, exchanging angular momentum with it to spin into
motion. I can see her thoughts as she forms them, she's broadcasting to me
how it was, and I can hear her.

"Yes" I say, and I visualize taking her hand. As I reach for it, she raises
it to meet me, perfectly coordinated. Like one system.

I playfully turn my hand, and she turns her hand against mine, backs
touching. We drop them and turn to face each other.

"So what do you do down here?" I ask?

"SCUBA. It's not the same, but there's life down here, fish and turtles and
other people, and you can be much more casual about when you dive than
getting airlock clearances on construction crews!"

"I've never tried SCUBA. Actually, I've never even snorkelled. It's really
that good?"

"Oh yeah. Come with me!"

"I'd love that!"

So it's set. We spend the rest of the party taking to other people, a
little skittish. It's not easy, that feeling of Something Is Happening. And
the end of the night, I give her a hug and a kiss on the cheek, and ride
back to the hotel on my bike.

I check messages when I get in. Some good news, some complications. I make
some judgement calls, nudge a few things forwards, and go to sleep.

There's a heaviness to my dreams, a portentious quality, a sense of
something of significance. But it's just smoke and fog when I try and think
about what all the symbolism means. I just don't know what I'm trying to
say to myself in the night time movie theater.

The next morning, the King of the World gets up and goes to work. He has a
date.

===== The Beach House =====

Fort Lauderdale is a quiet, cheap place to live. It's seen better days, but
the couple of decades it was uninsurable around the 40s from climate storms
moved a lot of the wealth out. It's settled down into a quiet tropical
decadance.

Down here, my salary goes a long, long way. We have a house two hundred and
fifty meters from the sea, behind a huge raft of carefully planted flood
defences, trees that stabilize the soil embedded in geotextiles. We can see
the sea through their trunks, but they break the sea winds.

I'm saving money. PRIG's helping us plan another year in orbit in a couple
of years, but I'm wary of relying on AL to print money for tickets etc. We
can't afford to go, but getting work posts up there is plausible with our
skills, and that's not a bad way to go. And if AL does it again (I don't
like to ask!) we'll have a nice little nest egg.

Father approves of Jillian. I thought I'd find that reassuring, but it
brings up a whole bunch of questions about family and where the lines are.
Mom's not so sure, thinks she's a little flaky and "well... orbital, you
know?" and my sisters steer clear of her, wary of having to offer an honest
opinion. They just want me to sort it out myself.

We moved into the beach house a few months ago, and it's quietly paradise.
I still work for the company. Jillian's teaching dance classes here and
training for a diving trainer license. There's a lot of grunt work doing
conservation diving here, reseeding damaged reefs, cleaning up ancient
garbage on the ocean bottom, but we don't need the money that badly. I'm
doing very well, because once in a while PRIG and AL help me out with
something tricky, and I've gotten something of a reputation as a wizard, a
trouble-shooter who really understands the space context and how to get
people up there to help us lowly groundlings out with our irrelevant little
problems as they go forwards and forge a new destiny for the human race.

Or something like that.

I keep my mouth shut a lot, I never mention Peter, and I get on with it. I
had to choose between living like Peter, living like Dad, or making my own
mistakes. Dad's lifestyle was all about compromise, and I think, in the
final analysis, he did much better than Peter did. At least... I looked
inside of myself, and saw there was nothing inside me that wanted to be a
hermit in a van.

Jillian comes home. She's hosing off gear outside, setting it on the line
to dry as she does. I hit pause on a couple of processes, save state, and
get a couple of beers out of the fridge. I hear the shower start outside,
and a couple of minutes later she walks in stark naked and dripping wet,
shimmies a little shedding drops and jiggling far too consciously, says
good evening, kisses me and then goes to the bedroom to find clothes.

I smile and put my shoes on.

She comes out wearing a towel around her head and a sarong and sandals. The
evening's hot and sticky, not much breeze today, and I'm in a shirt and
shorts.

We take our beers with us, and walk down the path through the trees to the
beach. Walking along the sand in the falling dusk, she tells me about a
couple of fish she photographed this afternoon on the reef, and I tell her
about some trivial details of an alloys deal I just sorted out.

Half a kilometre down the beach, there are umbrellas around a notoriously
fake Tiki bar. We finish our beers before we get there, and take our usual
stools.

Eddie and Edie are behind the bar as usual, cooking salt fish. He's
Nigerian, she's Sudanese, but they're both Islanders. They opened this
place a few years ago, and they've become our friends.

"Go on, then!"

"Two margaritas and what's good?"

"The fish, man, the fish."

It's a joke, there's only ever one dish on the menu each evening, and it
sells out by seven. They just cook a bit more dinner than they need, and if
you're lucky and early, there's some for you too.

I borrow his remote, and Jillian shows me the fish. It's in little cave in
the reef, and is quite large, almost the size of a big eel, but clearly a
fish. No particular colours, it's silvery grey, but it's clearly too big
for the hole its in. Trapped?

"Yep! It must be some kind of ambush predator, and it'd just stick its head
out of the hole, grab something, and eat it, and it's been growing in there
since it was tiny probably!"

"Wow, what did you do?"

"Well, I took a couple of pictures and freed it, just chipped away a little
of the coral at the entrace so it could escape if it wanted to."

"You freed a bananafish?"

"Yep."

I press my leg against hers, and put an arm around her shoulder.

"I love you."

It's sort of a turning point, a petty symbolic action that expresses her
hope for the world. I don't really know why I'm so deeply touched, but
there's something in that action, the pointlessness of it but also the
wholeness of it, her intention to give a perfectly happy fish some options
that it did not have before... the innocence of just doing it.

We eat the salt fish stew and make small talk with Eddie and Edie as they
carelessly manage a slow night at the bar. Afterwards, we walk back up the
beach, and I think to myself "what is life for?"

Jillian catches the thought, and says, appropo of nothing verbal "Well,
isn't this nice?" and I glance backwards at the footsteps together.

I don't know how far we're going together, but we seem to have set off on
the right foot, and it's all fine.

In the night, I dream of Peter again. I startle awake when I see him leap
into the air and fly off in a fit of enthusiasm.

I think about Dad's vision of Miko and Peter on a beach somewhere, living
pretty much as Jillian and I live now. I think for a minute of how
desparately Dad wants Peter to still be here, still be alive, not to have
killed himself. Why didn't they choose to live? What was the point of it
all?

I know that I'm not going to find out. All of us spent time with Peter, but
none of us every really knew him. The real man was always more complex than
he could have put into words, even if he had tried for centuries.

Next time I see PRIG, I'm going to ask him for his real thoughts, though.
We may never know, but we saw different sides of Peter. It's worth asking.

===== Space is the Place =====

PRIG and AL are on opposite sides of a game of Go. AL's showing PRIG his
potential moves, projecting patterns of light over the physicality of the
stones, magnetically held to an imitiation wood board. PRIG says "I don't
think you're going to be able to make life in that corner now, AL. I've
checked!"

AL responds "I only need two stones worth of sente and I have life in that
corner, PRIG, and you know how I love ko battles."

PRIG and AL both use AIs to play Go. Simple tactical intelligences which
tree search and grind out possibilities. They have no consciousness, no
awareness to speak of. But you need them to play games. The problem is that
software is software, and when both sides have it, the advantages rapidly
level out. Human judgement, and in AL's case, a rapidly evolving
machine-aesthetic sense help add the little edge on top of the simple
efficiency of the machine analysis. But without that bedrock, complex
consciousnesses are simply too fallible. Even AL makes mistakes.

So AL uses those simple game AI systems much as PRIG does. The difference
is, perhaps, that AL truly understands them. But his advantage over PRIG is
small, and reducing the more he and PRIG play.

"Harry asked me something the other day" says PRIG, pondering his move.

"Yes? What did he have to say? Is he still shacked up with that girl?" AL,
of course, knows, but is making small talk.

"Yep. He's quite eager to see what she does in zero g, she's talking about
coreographing a show up here."

"Hm. Call it 'muddy boots in space, the ballet.'" AL tests the
funny/offensive line.

"Well, I dunno, earth-born dancers have a certain vitality, an elation in
openness which even the best of ours find hard to match. I've watched some
of her films from the time she was up here, and she really does have
something." PRIG is envious, but that's not something to discuss with AL.

"What did Harry have to say?"

"He wanted to know if I really thought Peter was dead."

The silence stretches out as they both look at the board and ponder their
positions, and PRIG checks his game AI's analysis against AL's equivalent
system.

It's been a while since they've talked about Peter. He's becoming part of
the past, one day at a time.

"What did you say?"

PRIG pauses. He knows AL won't say anything to Harry, and he's kept silent
long enough.

"Peter told me that he was not interested in living too long many times,
AL. He really envied Harry being able to come up here when he wanted,
having a body that could take the strain. He said that when he came back,
it was going to be in a body that could take him to the stars. We'll see
him when the time is right."

It's AL's turn to pause.

"The search is slow, PRIG, on both fronts. We both know the odds against
contacting an intelligent species, that we can communicate with, that has a
drive, that isn't hostile, that wants to share, that has a technology that
we can implement. It may simply never happen. And the physics is no easier,
the universe is not going to hand us star drives on a plate just because we
invented the guitar and the folk song. Peter may have to take his own sweet
time coming back if he wants to catch that particular show."

PRIG looks weary for a moment. How long is it really going to take before
something changes, before the doors of the universe open for panhumanity,
and the future begins in earnest for all of us?

"Well, my friend, at least one of us will be here to see it."

PRIG places a stone very carefully on the board, slightly against the
advice of his AI, but trusting his intuition.

AL says "I hope the wait won't be too long, PRIG. I'd like you to come with
us."

"If Peter's right about how the world really works, AL, one way or the
other, I'll see you in the stars."
